foreign
the vulnerability is not something that
can be like it's not a morality right
it's not like this is the place to be
vulnerable this is not it's in every
moment you can feel where your fear and
your truth are together and that's the
vulnerable action
welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore how deepening
connection with ourselves and others
leads to creating the life we want with
enjoyment and ease my name is Brett
Kistler I'm an adventurer entrepreneur
and a self-exploration Enthusiast I'm
here with my co-host Joe Hudson Joe is a
business coach who spent decades working
with some of the world's top Executives
and teams developing a unique model of
human patterns that underpin how we
operate with ourselves each other and
the world a good entry point into this
model is a mindset called view
vulnerability impartiality empathy and
wonder through understanding and
cultivation we learn to easefully drop
into the view State of Mind deepening
self-awareness and increasing our
connection with the world around us to
learn more about this podcast or courses
visit art of accomplishment.com
foreign
to associate vulnerability with weakness
we fear that being deeply vulnerable
will open the door to being dominated or
taken advantage of by others what's the
difference between vulnerability and
timidness and how can unprotected
vulnerability be a sign of strength and
courage
vulnerability is the v in View and the
topic of today's episode
so Joe what do you mean when you use the
word vulnerable what do I mean by the
word when I use vulnerable um
it means speaking your truth even when
it's scary that's what I mean by
vulnerable
if it's not your truth it's not
vulnerable and if it's not scary to say
it it's not vulnerable
okay so somatically how how do we tell
the difference between saying the scary
thing and just saying something well
scared oh wow that's a great question
um
the difference for me in is somatically
is that in one of them I'm embracing the
fear and then the other one I'm trying
to get rid of the fear so if I'm saying
the scary thing
then I'm embracing it I'm saying oh
here's fear and I'm going to actually
feel this in my body I'm going to open
up to this thing I'm going to jump off
this Cliff if you will and I'm going to
say the thing
and it's kind of it's not overcoming but
it's facing and feeling your fear
whereas if you're just saying something
while you're scared that's more like
what do I say to get out of this
situation right so then that one you're
trying to avoid the fear you have it but
you're trying to get rid of it so this
is this embracing of fear versus
avoiding of the fear that's that's the
benefit of a vulnerability practice it's
one of them yeah I mean so there's
something that happens when we embrace
the fear or we face it if we say okay
yeah I'm happy to feel this fear
one of the things that often happens is
it shifts to excitement but also
it's a deeply empowering move it's a
deeply empowering move to say oh I can
feel this I don't have to
cower to this emotional experience and I
don't have to avoid it and I don't have
to push it away I can actually embrace
it
I'm powerful enough to embrace this
this emotion that most people want to
reject and so that that's one of the
benefits but another one of the benefits
is that what you notice often
when you start especially when it comes
to judgment when you start being
vulnerable about things that you judge
yourself on which is one of the ways
that you can be vulnerable
you start realizing that most people
aren't going to judge you for it right
so you can be like Oh I'm lazy and then
and then you notice like most people
don't maybe even think you're lazy and
then those who do maybe are like yeah
that's part of who you are and I'm okay
with it there's the amount that we judge
ourselves is far more far greater than
what other people judge us for
for the most part
and so every time we act vulnerably we
get to see that we get to position
what are the voice in our head tells us
is wrong with us compared to what the
world tells us is wrong with us
so that's another thing that's like
incredibly useful about a long-term
vulnerability practice but the the main
thing that a vulnerability practice
gives us that's outside of those two
things that we just talked about
is that
allows us to find Our Truth
you find out um that as you speak your
truth even though it's vulnerable
your world starts aligning around your
truth instead of your presentation of
yourself
and all of a sudden it brings you closer
to yourself so you're the more You're
vulnerable the more you're setting up
the world to see you for what you are to
respond to you for what you are and over
time the world changes and you and
around you because you're not willing to
accept certain things that you were when
you weren't being yourself or you're
willing to say things that you weren't
willing to say when you weren't being
yourself and then all of a sudden
you can start understanding yourself
more and more more clearly see yourself
more clearly because you're more in
alignment and you're more aware of your
um in the subtle ways that you're not
aligned so that's the biggest benefit of
of a vulnerability practice so what you
said about finding that others won't
judge us for the same things we judge
ourselves for that seems true but it
also must be true that people will judge
us for some of the things that we judge
ourselves for and even some things that
we don't judge ourselves for so it can't
always be true that everything about us
will be accepted and what do you have to
say to that yeah it's totally true yeah
yeah you're we're going to be judged all
the time
um I think what what you'd
there's a couple things about that the
first thing is that you notice is that
what people are judging you for is
really not about you it's about what
they judge themselves for and that
becomes pretty apparent if you allow
yourself to open to their judgment you
know oftentimes I work with people and
they're like people are judging me I'm
like yeah look around there's somebody
here judging you no doubt about it um
and just allowing that in for people
changes something it's like oh wait I've
been running
away from this my whole life and it's
happening all the time right so there's
some way in which allowing yourself to
be open for the judgment
um helps you know is one of the benefits
of the vulnerability
but the other thing is that
um there's kind of a current shame and
past shame that happens right and
oftentimes when you're being vulnerable
past shame can be recognized and and
seen and
people don't need to be ashamed of it I
think a great example of this is there's
a couple movies out there one is called
the work and one is called what I want
my words to say to you
and their kind of group process work in
prison and you are sitting there with
these prisoners in this movie who are
telling you
like their innermost work and you know
they're Killers you know they've like
slashed people open
and you're just sitting there like oh
like you you have this empathy for them
you don't want them to feel shame
they're doing the work and so there's a
way in which that passion which is what
you know is really not useful for us as
people it really helps resolve that and
heal that because generally a lot of
people have some acceptance for that if
you are
being vulnerable about it right if
you're being all harshen
hardcore about it they may not but
current shame is the more likely place
where people aren't going to immediately
um not judge you like I'm stealing from
your house at this exact moment right
like that's less and and that's because
current shame is actually quite useful
it's our signal that oh this isn't what
we're doing right now isn't isn't what
we want to be doing it's not in
alignment with who we are that's what
current shame is for past shame
is this idea that if like I brutalize
myself then it'll somehow change the way
that I act in the future which tons of
studies show that that's just not true
and it's not really useful and it's and
it's what really condemns us to repeat
that pattern it's a form of resistance
and so that pattern persists
and so on one level yes people are
definitely going to judge you and
there's some benefit in that because you
get to see that they're really just
judging themselves especially in the
past shame and you also the other
benefit is oh right it really helps you
point out the current shame that's going
on the shame for what you're doing in
this moment
or in this day so that's another that's
another way to look at it this is
interesting to me because a lot of the
expected reaction that for somebody that
we might imagine can receive criticism
and can receive judgment the expected
response we think of from a strong
person is just to let it roll off their
back and that's not vulnerable that's
that's like that's protected so what is
it what's the difference between letting
judgment in in a way that doesn't
produce
unnecessary shame or just trigger and
bring up and dredge up past shame and
bring it into the present moment yeah
right it's it's letting it break your
heart you know if like if you think
about if you feel in your body anytime
that you're judging somebody it's
you can feel the discomfort of it you
can feel that it's an avoidance of
feeling your own emotions or your own
insecurity or your own
deeper feelings like there's a exercise
that we do where people
um basically say what they're judging
somebody for and then they identify the
feelings underneath that that judgment
is holding at Bay
so what it is is to actually feel your
feelings feel the judgment is to let it
in and when you say somebody rolls it
off their back that seems like a strong
thing for us when it's strong when it's
natural when you're not like okay I'm
gonna let that roll off my back where
it's like you just don't notice it
it's like that famous saying that if
you're trying to be patient you're not
patient
but it's just as strong if not stronger
to lean into it and feel that judgment
let it break your heart it doesn't mean
that you have to grovel at the floor for
the person which immediately is what
people's brains go to that this now
you're just a groveling weak pathetic
person which is like incredibly
um far from the truth because the one of
the greatest strengths that most people
don't have is the ability to actually
just feel their emotions they're just
constantly trying to manage them because
they're really scared shitless of their
emotions and then the other thing just
to say uh is that if you think about
vulnerability and you think about like
the Catholics have confession and
um the AAA has its version of you know
making amends and
and talking about all the things that
you did while you were you know drunk
and like this is a huge part of almost
all healing work right his vulnerably
admitting to yourself and to others
what you've done and to see that you're
not doomed for it to see that there's
salvation or repentance or whatever you
want to call it that that you can still
be loved inside of this and if we don't
share those things we there's no
way that the shame can kind of come out
of the closet and be seen and be loved
so on one big facet then of
vulnerability is this letting judgment
in in a way that breaks our heart open
instead of
sending us into into a shame cycle and
also there's the vulnerability in
feeling the pain behind the Judgment
that we have for others what other kinds
of vulnerability are there oh let's see
asking for what you want that one's
usually really vulnerable for people
drawing boundaries can be incredibly
vulnerable for people
uh expressing yourself you know singing
or sharing your poetry can be very
vulnerable for people
um I think the most vulnerable thing for
almost all of us is letting the love in
is like really dropping our guard and
dropping our wall of protection and
really allowing love to come in that's
an incredibly vulnerable thing to do
especially if we've been taught which
most of us have that
love is criticism or love is abuse her
love is
rejection
and also speaking of rejection it's just
allowing yourself to be rejected like
you said with the Judgment really
when you allow judgment in and you feel
it all the way it's the same thing as
saying I'm allowing myself to be
rejected
and you let that break your heart open
and and as you do let that heartbreak
what happens this is the weird part
about it is that if you really let that
heart break in and you really feel the
pain of it
what happens is it just starts to not
bother you
I had a
several experiences where there's been
something where let's say let's say it's
a lot like judgment where
I noticed that oh when people judge me I
kind of get my defense goes up I kind of
my chest it expands a little bit and I
maybe look down on them or something and
I'm like you know I don't want to do
that anymore I want to really let that
break my heart
and I did you know for uh weeks months
I'm trying to think it's probably about
six weeks can I be crying in odd places
and all that crazy stuff and now when
people judge me like there's just like
no very seldom or reaction there's still
sometimes a reaction when
it's somebody who I like deeply love and
respect and they do it and then I'll
notice maybe I get defensive or maybe my
heart still breaks but the tremendous
amount of judgment that you get
particularly in a position like this
tons of people you know have an opinion
and want to judge what you're saying and
doing which is absolutely they're right
it's like it's no it doesn't even cross
my Consciousness anymore and that's what
the Heartbreak provides it provides you
the courage to love more deeply there
seem to be good game theoretic reasons
to keep our fears and intentions closer
to our chests sometimes and how do we
how do we speak Our Truth and share our
internal world like this without being
taken advantage of well the first thing
to say is that like I said just a little
bit earlier boundaries are um are
vulnerable too right when you draw a
boundary
if you draw it in the way that I think
about boundaries which is
not asking somebody else to be different
but saying what you're going to do
differently like hey if you're going to
yell at me I'm going to leave
that kind of a boundary often what
you're saying is are you going to reject
me for being myself that's what the
boundary is saying and accepting that
they might do that
right and and so it's
incredibly vulnerable to draw that
boundary and also when you're really
capable of stepping into that
vulnerability
you're less likely to be taken advantage
of most people are taking advantage of
because there's something in them that
says no this isn't right I know this
isn't right
but if I say that I might get rejected
and the vulnerable thing is to say it
and find out if you get rejected
so
vulnerability actually protects you one
other way to kind of look at this a
little bit is that most of the time when
people are taking advantage of it's
because they're avoiding Their Fear
right so
I might be poor my whole life and
therefore I'll listen to this person or
I'm I'm scared that I'll procrastinate
my whole life so I'll buy this thing
from this Guru or
I want to make the money so I'll believe
that my boss is going to promote me when
they don't promote me
right it's fear that allows us to be
taken advantage of not vulnerability
and if you really vulnerably say wow I'm
I just noticed that I'm curious if I'm
going to be taken advantage of here
wow the chances of you getting taken
advantage of are a tremendous amount
less you know so
my experience is that people think about
it differently is because
when they were young they loved
unconditionally
and it hurt and so they think that
they're going to be hurt if they're
loving
and vulnerability in the end of the day
is an opening up to your to your love to
your openness to your truth of Who You
Are
and so people associate that with a pain
but it's it's actually the fear
that drives the being taken advantage of
so far more so what makes this you kind
of touched on this just now but let's
dig into a little bit more about what
makes this so counterintuitive to most
of us if vulnerability really is
strength and if voter vulnerability and
and embracing our fear is the way out of
being taken advantage of what makes so
much so many of us have this this block
um it may have been the case when we
were kids that something happened but
we've grown up now what what makes that
persist yeah so we're kids
and we're not accepted for who we are as
kids that's just a very if if there's
very few if any people get like just
fully accepted for who they are
you know don't have a temper tantrum
don't cry don't get angry don't get sad
don't
be scared man up
you know lift up your chin it's like
what we are is not fully accepted calm
down don't get so excited blah blah blah
and so what that makes us feel is it
makes us feel helpless as kids right
it's like this deep helpless feeling
of weight
this is who I am and I'm not supposed to
be this way and and I'm having love
removed from me if I'm myself which does
it feels really bad to not be yourself
and it feels really bad
to get your love removed from you from
your parents where you know your entire
biology is designed to get the love from
your parents
and so you start to feel scared and you
also feel like you're wrong
and so that's the memory that lives with
us and it controls us so we don't like
want to
we don't want to feel that
as I think we've discussed before
there's different waves of brain waves
there's Alpha and beta and Theta and
Theta is that dream state it's that kind
of where you go into hypnosis and and
kids from zero to seven zero to eight
they're in Theta all the time so this is
the programming the programming is don't
be yourself in these ways because if you
do you're going to feel really helpless
you're gonna feel scared and you're
gonna feel wrong and so when we start to
be ourselves that's what that's the
feeling that we have to move through
and when you move through it two or
three times it's done you just gotta
move through it three or four times two
or three times you're finished
it's not very many times that you have
to move through it then the system has
changed itself it's like muscle memory
more than anything else right so this
this muscle memory this a relationship
to vulnerability is imprinted on us when
we're young by other people and a lot of
this seems Seems like it's about other
people and their effect on our
vulnerable our imprint of vulnerability
but now when we're doing this work from
the inside out do we need somebody else
around to be like to be on the same page
with us to be vulnerable how do we
develop this vulnerability from the
inside out when it was patterned on us
from the outside in yeah so one of the
things that I've noticed is that when
people have a really strong access to
their emotions they care less and less
what
um other people think
so people who have like a really strong
ability to feel their anger have a fluid
anger and a fluid
sadness and fluid fear that they care
less and and it's because they're
incredibly related the vulnerability
vulnerable thing to do when you're by
yourself is to allow yourself to feel
whatever you're feeling
like right now in this moment you can
close your eyes and there's something in
your system emotionally uncomfortable
and you can lean in
and open to it embrace it and welcome it
and that's the same feeling of
vulnerability because if it got rejected
as a kid we've rejected it internally as
well
and so allowing ourselves to feel it and
embracing that intensity
and it can be done in really literally
every moment of the day
that's showing yourself that these
feelings that you have this truth that
you have is acceptable it's it's a great
way to grok that like oh there is
nothing wrong with me the thing that we
think is wrong with us is resisted
emotion emotion that we think we're not
supposed to have
um so internally it's jumping off the
same Cliff it's like oh I'm I'm gonna
allow myself to feel this feeling
it's the same when you're being
vulnerable and you're speaking your
truth you're like oh I might feel
rejected oh I might feel judged oh I
might feel abandoned
and is allowing yourself to feel these
feelings whether it's internal or
external so what's a what's a specific
example of one of these one of these
feelings these uncomfortable feelings
that we might find if we do this
exercise and then a vulnerable action
that might come from
embracing that feeling
yeah so so the feelings are some of the
ones I've mentioned like rejection or
abandonment or uh anger can be different
for everybody but what can be even more
different is what the action is that's
vulnerable right so for me it was very
easy to move to fight if I felt attacked
and what was Far harder more vulnerable
for me you know some years ago was to
say ouch to say that hurt
to say I'm sorry those were far more
vulnerable actions because I felt like I
would be attacked if I did that
but there are some people who always say
I'm sorry and so their more vulnerable
action might be to stand up for
themselves
so it's really different the
vulnerability is not something that can
be like it's not a morality right it's
not like this is the place to be
vulnerable this is not it's in every
moment you can feel where your fear and
your truth are together and that's the
vulnerable action it's really a very
personal thing
and you were talking about the the fight
part like how how does vulnerability
look in the face of outright direct
hostility like perhaps there's no
physical danger that you're in but
you're in the face of strong aggression
yeah so again that's different for
everybody you know like the The Story
Goes that say Gandhi got shot
and he forgave the person before he died
that might be a great Act of
vulnerability but it might not I mean
that's the crazy part that might have
been like second nature for Gandhi
um so it's really about seeing what your
truth is so if you're in like outright
attack the vulnerable thing might be to
say I don't want to engage with you
and that that could be really like
if you learned as a kid that uh walking
away from somebody was something that
was going to get you attacked then that
might be the really vulnerable thing and
you might do that five six seven times
and find out oh I can do that now okay
and then now it's not vulnerable anymore
and now now it's vulnerable now what's
vulnerable might be like oh my goodness
yeah please share all that I see you're
really angry at me please share that all
with me
and then that you might do that for five
or six times and all of a sudden that's
not vulnerable anymore and then the
vulnerable thing might be like I love
you
and it hurts that you're attacking me
and I love you I'm not going to stop
loving you
right and and you you just can't
determine what that is for a person it's
it's very much what it is for you it's
it's your truth it's yours fear it's not
anybody else's
and it could be stop it it could be I'm
not going to accept this from you right
now it could be literally yelling back
it's very different for every person
but if you if you don't feel like you
have the freedom to do all of those
things then you're not free
it there's a saying that says like if
your hand is always in a fist or if your
hand is always in a receiving position
both of them are you really want
that flexibility and vulnerability gives
you that so a lot of the examples we
gave there wasn't really a clear like
it's it's it's really person dependent
um so people could find themselves using
I've seen this happen before people will
use vulnerability as a defense or as a
way to attract attention or manipulate a
situation and it'll be maybe it'll be a
false vulnerability or maybe they will
truly feel that that's vulnerable for
them because it's just making them feel
the fear that they're in a patterned to
feel
um what's going on with that I've got a
big smile on my face yeah so this is
again this um um belief system that
weakness is
um is vulnerability so what what's
happening there often is that people are
using they're saying oh look I'm weak
and it's making you feel guilty or
making you want to take care of them
or making you feel like you've done
something wrong and so it's really not
vulnerability at all when if you think
about that moments when you've done it
right when you've
you know played weak to manipulate or we
all have on some level played week two
um to get someone to help us
um I think guilting people is one
version of this right
um if you see we're not and we're
neither in Our Truth nor are we scared
when we're doing that
so yeah so it's just a confusion over
again that that vulnerability and
weakness are the same thing
so how do you how do you know then if
you're if you're in one of those
situations how do you know if you're
really being vulnerable or if you just
are having bad boundaries or trying to
control
what's what's the pointer to that
yeah it's it's when you are in your
truth and when you are embracing fear
right and not feeling it but embracing
it and and then a good way to know when
you're not being vulnerable is that
there's a guilt involved
because almost all the time when we're
manipulating somebody there's something
it kind of feels dirty in US
and and that's like a guilt feeling so
that's another way to know if if you're
doing this to control and you see this
all the time nowadays where people
control by saying I don't feel safe
right they say I don't feel safe and
that's like you have to change for me
and so we can turn anything into control
we can turn boundaries into control we
can vulnerability and control and you
see people do this too where they're
like
I was vulnerable with them and they
weren't vulnerable back as if as if it's
an exchange like if we're keeping score
and that happened you won
because you get to be vulnerable
so if you're if you're keeping score if
it's guilt then you know that you're not
in a vulnerable state got it so
vulnerability is already like it's
widely accepted
as a directionally correct heuristic for
personal relationships and
notwithstanding the challenges and you
know different relationships people have
the definitions of vulnerability but
what about in the workplace what happens
when we bring vulnerability to the
workplace where it's
um it often seems like vulnerability
should be or is is expected to be
reduced in a workplace
is what happens you manage people better
you sell better you build better
products
that's what happens when you're
vulnerable in a in a workplace it's kind
of interesting to hear you say it ask
the question
um because I know I know that so many
corporate environments are built on a
lack of vulnerability
um but you know it doesn't matter what
what you look at if you look at the
people who are outstanding performers
that are really outstanding performers
there's a way in which they're
vulnerable in their work it's even
I know it's kind of crazy to even say
this it's even in rap music if you look
at rap music and at all the belligerents
and all the um and the fronting and and
saying how cool they are and you know
how they're gonna get everybody else the
people who are most vulnerable in their
apps are the most successful the ones
who actually show themselves like Eminem
whatever they are they're like they're
they're kind of revealing a part of them
their psychology that
it would be hard for anybody else to
reveal if it was in them
um those are often the most successful
and it's just like that all the way
around if you
there's um tons of stories there's a
woman in Brazil who you know had her
company for work without a paycheck for
six months because she was so vulnerable
and
let them know there's a Reinventing
organizations there's a story of a
of a CEO of a company they lost a third
of their business and he vulnerably went
to everybody and said I don't know what
to do and the whole company was like hey
let's um let's reduce our salaries for a
third until we can get
another a customer in and they got a
customer relatively quickly
um there's just so many stories of you
know they talk about brand authenticity
that's a vulnerable thing you know I saw
the head of the CEO of Patagonia get up
and speak one time and he said
for brand authenticity I want to tell
you what we're not doing for the
environment that we could be doing and
he just listed it up that's how he
started and immediately everybody was
just like oh wow you really do care
about the environment whereas other
people are like this is everything I'm
doing you're like greenwashing
vulnerability
works if you even think about like the
great presidential speeches
and they're talking they're they're
they're evoking a vulnerability of like
I am responsible for this after all I'm
the president yeah or ask not what your
country can do for you ask what you can
do for your country that those
sentiments are all these vulnerable
sentiments
of like
opening up our Humanity because it's our
Humanity that creates Connection in all
businesses is connection it's a
connection to our thoughts it's a
connection to each other it's a
connection to our customers
and so the deeper we are in connection
with ourselves with our ideas with our
emotions with our customers with the
product that those levels of connection
it just makes us better in business what
tends to happen if you if somebody who's
embarking on this on this journey right
now and
um bringing more and more of themselves
and their vulnerability to their
workplace uh what can they expect what's
that going to look like
probably a bumpy ride I would say that
it's a bit of a bumpy ride at first
because one of the main reasons people
fight is is the question of who's in
charge and if you've been acting
like you know everything all the time
and you start being vulnerable people
might be like oh is he not in charge
anymore and they might test that
for a while until they realize you know
uh that nope you're still strong you
still are determined you you're just
also being real you're just creating
connection
and also most of the time when people
start being vulnerable they kind of
kind of oscillate between vulnerable and
defended vulnerable and defended
vulnerable and that kind of creates a
confusing signal for the company so it
can be a little bit of a Muffy ride but
it definitely
um turns the corner relatively soon if
you commit to it and what happens is you
know you know yourself better here's the
favorite famous Drucker quote which
basically you can't manage others if you
can't manage yourself so self-knowledge
happens people are more prone to trust
you because you're actually real with
them you create like I said deeper
connections and and people they follow
authenticity if you really look at who
we pick as our leaders they can be
they can be
kind they can be Saints they can be
incredibly intelligent but the people
that we pick
are the people who are authentic you
know and the less authentic say a
presidential candidate is the more it
feels like they're putting on a show the
less likely they are to get elected I
like that you pointed out the people
that we pick as our leaders because you
know in the workplace there's often an
assumption that we didn't pick our boss
but we really did pick our job and pick
who's going you know we did in a sense
um now as a leader as a as a boss and I
you you'd mentioned that as as people
show up to the workplace with more
vulnerability they they kind of go back
and forth between like clean
vulnerability and then you know being
messy and that can be really
disorienting for people around them as a
leader how can you create an environment
that allows people that space that slack
for messiness as they show up and try to
bring more vulnerability yeah that's a
great question
um question that a lot of people never
get to I would say that the real way to
do this is to have really clear
boundaries
no emotions at people
you take accountability for the mess
that you make and those are the things
that are most useful for the people who
are there right so somebody says oh I'm
going to be vulnerable and they
are vulnerable and you know in a normal
business maybe they would say that was
unprofessional we need you to be
professional like basically take that
part of yourself and stuff it
um and I'm not saying that's a bad thing
but if you're it's just not the most
efficient thing and if you're choosing
to be vulnerable and somebody does that
same kind of like really big mess it's
like
I really understand and Karen at the end
of the day these are still your
responsibilities and it's still your job
to
treat your employees your employees or
your peers with respect and like how do
we accept this part of you and still
make sure that all the other
expectations are met because I think a
lot of the times when people start being
vulnerable it does
it can allow people to get messy and too
entwined in in trying to save each other
right and if somebody's vulnerable with
you then you try to save them it can get
really quite messy
and it's really the thing is if
someone's vulnerable with you it's how
do you Empower them how do you turn it
around so that they see that there's
actions that they can take
responsibility for
so as an example of this um I was
recently working with somebody I was
very explicit please do not do this it
will hurt a lot of our customers if you
do it they went ahead and did it and and
I basically said oh I noticed that I've
lost trust and I don't want to work with
anybody that I don't trust
and the way that I could see rebuilding
trust is that you identify what created
that behavior in you and you tell me how
you're addressing it so then I can be
confident it's not going to happen again
and so it's just an incredibly clear
boundary and and holding them
accountable which is the Deep form of
empowerment and there is no anger there
is no shame there's no you've been bad
there was no me trying to save them
there was just I actually appreciated
them for showing me some things
in the conversation that we had prior
where I was like oh I really appreciate
that you showed me these things and
these are ways that I can improve and
I still notice I don't have trust in you
I know something you you kind of got to
a little earlier was um you know
vulnerability is seems to be contagious
as you if you show up to to a
relationship or a workplace becoming
more vulnerable
it seems that often others will become
more vulnerable too and you can just
expect that to happen and that you can
expect them to be messy
and maybe if you're doing it from the
framework of view in a course you might
have more you know more Theory to fall
back on on how to like let your
messiness be and they might have less
so it seems like as we're preparing
ourselves to experience
being more Messy as we become vulnerable
we can just expect other messiness to
show up around us and vulnerability
what's your advice for that
yeah well first of all yes messiness is
going to show up
um but it's not going to be more messy
than what's happening now
so it's just going to be outed you know
it's just going to be raised to the
surface so it's
it's not that
um vulnerability just is going to make
your world a mess for a while it's just
gonna like shine light into the corners
you haven't swept
and so every one of those messes if it's
approached with more vulnerability and
boundaries and
that kind of thing then the world gets
more and more clean and then there's
less and less friction and then
everything happens more and more
smoothly so the question that you're
asking though is still is a good one
which is like what do you do when you
shine the light
and see that there's a whole bunch of
dirt and the response is
you clean it out and view conversations
are a great way to do that uh it's
really working with each other and
holding each other accountable with
vulnerability impartiality empathy and
wonder and as we as we continue to
practice vulnerability how does how does
the way that we express a change over
time Beyond this like this early
shifting that seems like it might be
higher magnitude what what then happens
over a longer period a deep authenticity
shows up I think about my wife all the
time in this right like
I watch particularly other women I watch
them just kind of sit and and all of my
wife often it's almost like they're
watching a puppy you know the same kind
of awe that you see like a puppy with
because she's just like so and you
you've met her you know like she's just
like so much of herself she's just like
oh you know like tea flowers like she's
so in her world of joy and everybody's
like oh like and that's what happens is
it you're more yourself and and more
yourself means you're more in love it
means you're there's more joy in your
life and people want to be around that
and people are fascinated with that and
it it creates
awe in people
think about it this way think about a
friend that you have that you like very
much you have a deep love for and
there's just something that bothers you
about them right
and you put that person in your mind and
imagine if that thing that they bothered
you with they were just super vulnerable
they're like
you know I noticed that I am kind of
constantly bragging and
I'm really sorry for that
it's not how I want to be with you I
don't want to have to try to make myself
feel good or make you feel bad
that's one example just imagine you have
a friend like that like what happens in
your system if they're vulnerable like
that with you
it's like you immediately want to be
around them more
you dropped it and you dropped the
defense exactly judgment and that's what
it happens so the more You're vulnerable
the more that happens
um sales is the same thing there's um
good studies about people who are who
care more about the relationship who are
actually really driven by serving the
people through sales and how much better
they do performance Wise It's not the
only thing that makes a good salesperson
for sure there's definitely data that
you know challenging people can make you
a better sales person but challenging
people is a form of care
um you know asking questions helps sales
we know that but asking questions
actually shows a concern for them as
well and in a weird way if you look at
all of the things that make great sales
people they're all based on the fact
that they're centered on the other
person that they're
not about closing the deal it's about
building the relationship it's about
helping the person discover something
it's about entering into their world and
so in sales it's the same thing that
it's like a very vulnerable all those
things are very vulnerable moves
and and if you look at creating
relationships generally
you think about the people that you in
business that you're that you want to
work with
the next time you're in business like
it's like you're starting your company
and you can hand Pick 10 people that you
want to work with and how many of those
are based on some level of
um connection that you feel with that
person
it's probably something like seven out
of ten and then the other three are like
highly confident in something
so that's another way to look at it the
point they brought up about challenging
people is interesting there's a I mean
there are vulnerable ways to challenge
somebody in their invulnerable ways to
challenge somebody but let's let's
assume that you've done it in the most
vulnerable way and it's let's say it's
sales business you know something
um something relatively high stakes and
other people are depending on it and you
are authentically vulnerable in a way
that challenges somebody what if that is
received as an attack can you apologize
can you say I'm so sorry I had no
intention of attacking you
I was just hoping that we could discover
something together
yeah if you're challenging I mean asking
scary questions is is a huge part of
view and that is challenging that almost
always when that question is really
scary
it's really challenging and if you do it
with vulnerability
and which is the scary part the
impartiality empathy and wonder then
it's it's far less likely to be seen as
an attack still it can be seen as attack
and then you just go like I'm sorry that
I have no no intention of attacking you
or you double down and you say what's
making you defensive I don't understand
like what what are you defending
you know which would be another scary
question if you're actually in Wonder
not in judgment if you're not trying to
prove yourself right
yeah right that points back to the the
state of being that view is because you
could say what makes you so defensive or
you could say
really what what makes you what makes
you defend against that exactly or you
can say oh I see that I I've offended
you and I really don't want to offend
you and can you help me see what it is
that I've attacked and what you're
defending because you must really care
about it if you're defending it
yeah so so we've talked a lot about what
vulnerability is and what it looks like
um let's let's talk a little bit more
about the state of being
that all of this points to and how we
can how we can know when we're in it and
when we're not in it and what are what
are some Compass points that point
towards this vulnerability that we can
use as we as we walk away from yeah
that's great so intellectually like we
said probably several times now that
you're inviting your fear and you're
saying what's true to you that's the
intellectual kind of you can I guess
part of that's emotional inviting your
fear
um there's also kind of a hard opening
and the fear can often turn to
excitement if you fully Embrace that
vulnerability or it does maybe through
the process of saying the thing that you
want to say
so there's that heart openness that
happens and and the from the guts
perspective it's very much like yes yes
let's do this yes
there might be a no in the nervous
system but the gut is like yeah this is
true this is it and and that's what you
can feel those are kind of the ways to
feel the vulnerability but the the
easiest is just to say oh what's the
scary thing that's true for me right now
yeah I think some of the one of the
things that's in both the fear and the
excitement of saying the vulnerable
thing is knowing that your idea or your
authenticity is about to be tested like
knowing that you know the relationship
you're about to find out how real it is
for the other person or how how much
connection there actually is here yeah
or you know you're about to find out if
you're going to be rejected or not
instead of continuing to wonder for a
long time while you pretend to be yeah
that's such a beautiful way of putting
it it's true yeah and and the
interesting thing that your mind does in
these moments is that what your mind
does is it seems like that's the end of
it
you know like oh my God I'm gonna see if
I get rejected
and then they reject you and then you
can double down on vulnerability and you
can be like
ouch I was really hoping not to be
rejected and I I and I don't want to
push you into not rejecting me
then they might go oh wait hold on I
didn't I'm not trying to reject you here
I just want to be seen in my truth and
oh okay what am I missing like it
doesn't end the thing is it just never
ends and but but the fear tells us that
there's like this cliff and it's over at
that Cliff oh we're gonna be rejected
but I can't tell you how many times
today today at lunch there's a uh old
babysitter of ours and her mother was
sitting there and I saw them and I'd
seen the babysitter maybe two or three
years back and
and she didn't look happy and so I sorry
today and she looked great and I said
wow you look great she said oh thanks
and I was like yeah the last time I saw
you you looked like you were wilting a
little bit and it's just great to see
see you look so good
and then I'm sitting at lunch with my
daughter 11 years older whatnot and um
the mother comes over and like chastises
me for saying what I said to her
daughter
and I could feel rejected and I did for
a moment I was like ah
ouch and
and then I walked over and I looked at
the daughter and I said I'm sorry if
there I had no intention of offending
you and I'm sorry if I offended you
and she said oh it's no problem I just
couldn't figure out a time recently
where I I felt withered and or whatever
felt bad and I was like oh I don't think
I've seen you for two or three years
she's like okay
the mom was still Twisted about whatever
was going on
um but the daughter like immediate and
then she thanked me oh thank you for
apologizing I'm like yeah no problem and
it was you know there's no end
there's just when you want to stop and
sometimes it's really vulnerable to say
I can't do this anymore yeah he has two
directions I want to go with that one
that reminded me of a story
um from about like 10 years ago working
on a commercial production job and uh
the key actor who was a famous musician
at the time uh showed up to set and just
looked like death and everybody on set
tiptoed around that and just kind of
coddled and then he sits down in the the
makeup girl like us up and she's just
like wow you look like and he was
just like all of a sudden all this
tension just released he's like oh my
God
yeah I just feel like crap I've been
having these personal issues and like
this and that and the sleep and you just
like got to just let it all out yeah
exactly
yeah I don't know how many times I've
like said like wow you're being an ass
but with like a just total joy and like
no judgment in the system and the
person's like ah yeah I kind of am fine
and then we have a real conversation
yeah and it sounds it feels vulnerable
to say that though you know which brings
another thing to be excited about with
vulnerability is the the dropping of
pretense
you know like you're about to find out
this is probably where part of the fear
comes in like that you're going to have
to revise your model of reality
because you're testing it
exactly all the time yeah that's it
that's beautifully said
well this has been a great episode Joe
thank you so much for your time total
pleasure I look forward to the next one
Brett likewise take care
thanks for listening to the art of
accomplishment if you enjoyed what you
heard today please subscribe and rate US
in your podcast app we'd love your
feedback so feel free to send us
questions or comments you can reach out
to us join our newsletter or check out
our courses at Art of accomplishment.com
foreign